Well we had a really big sidetrack in putting together that users repository but now that we've got
all that code put together we can start to focus on signing up users to our application once again.
Now remember we are focused on having administrators sign up to our app because only administrators
can sign into the application and then start to change existing items or create products or delete products
or whatever else.
So to get back into the world of handling sign up of our application I want to tell you a little bit
about the general sign up process that we're going to follow.
All right.
So here's what we are going to be doing.
Whenever a user submits the sign up form to our application we're going to run a couple of little checks
inside of our post request handler.
We're going to first check to see if another user already signed up at the provided email.
We're only going to allow one unique email for each user.
So in other words an email can only be used one time to sign up for an account.
If that email has been used that's pretty much it.
That e-mail is associated with that user and nothing else is going to happen so if a user already signed
up with the given email or the email that is supplied inside the form we're going to show in error to
the user and tell them sorry.
But this e-mail is in use after that.
Well then also check to see if the password and password confirmation are different if they're different.
That means that the user likely made a typo when they entered in the password or the password confirmation.
And so we will also show an error to the user in that case as well.
If the user gets past both these checks that means that we need to create an account for this user or
some kind of record to represent them.
Well this gets exactly what it means to create an account for a user in just a little bit.
We're gonna have a much kind of larger discussion about some of the ideas behind authentication inside
of a web app in general to help you understand like what authentication or signing up and signing in
is really about.
But first let's just implement these checks really quickly.
All right.
So to implement those checks I can go back to my index dot GSA file.
I'm going to find our post request handler right here.
So remember at present to your console logging out wrecked body and that is going to be an object that
contains all the properties inside of the form specifically the name off of each of those different
inputs.
Let's try to resubmit this form right here and just see that console log once again to get a quick reminder
of the structure of that object so to do so I'm going to go back to my browser I can go to look at those
three thousand I'll see my form once again I'll enter in an email of test at test dot com some password
and some password confirmation and then submit the form then we can go back over to our terminal and
we should see an email password and password confirmation.
So that is what the rect body object contains.
So in order to do these comparisons or these checks of the users email and the password in password
confirmation we're going to reference the wrecked body dot email property and password and password
confirmation and so on let's go back over to our post request handler right here and start to implement
some of those checks so instead of here I'm going to first D structure the email password and password.
Confirmation properties out of the wreck dot body object then after that we need to take that email
and check to see if a user has signed up with it before.
So in other words we need to take a look at our users repository.
So we need to get access to this inside of our index such as file in order to access the code we wrote
inside that file inside of index.
J.S. we have to go up to the top of index dot J.S. and add a require statement for its at the top up
here.
I'll say const users repo short for repository and then to get the code inside that file that we just
put together it will do a require statement of repositories users notice that I've got the dot slash
inside of here.
Remember that means look in the current directory.
So in the same directory as the index dot J S file inside there find the repositories folder and then
inside there find these file called users.
Now we've got access to the instance of our repository right there.
So we can use all the same methods on it that we've been testing throughout the last couple of videos
to back down side by post request handler in order to check to see if someone has already signed up
at the given email.
We can do a concert is existing user is a weight users repo.
Dot we're going to use the method we just put together of get one by.
So get one by and we're going to put in our filter objects of email equal to the email that was provided
the key and the value here are identical so we can shorten that down to just be email like so.
So this is how we're gonna check to see if someone has already signed up with a given email before.
You'll notice that I assigned it to a variable of existing user.
So that just means to say this is an existing user who has already signed up to our application.
So if existing user is defined that means that someone has already used the email of email and so in
that case we should show a error message to the user if existing user is undefined.
That means that no one has ever used that email before and we have passed the first check to allow a
user to sign up so let's add in a check for this I'll say if existing user is defined then let's return
out of this request handler right away.
And I'll show an error message to the user by doing a red dot sent and we'll send back some just kind
of text message that says hey here's why you failed to sign up so I'll say something like email in use
like so now.
One last thing inside of here.
We're making use of the awake keyword remember anytime we use the awake keyword we have to mark the
enclosing function as being async so I'll say async and await.
All right.
So I think we're ready for a test here now in order to test this out.
We need to make sure that we actually have a user inside of our users not just on file with an email
equal to whatever we're going to submit inside of our form.
So we need to open up the users not just on file that was created inside of our root project directory
when we started up our server.
There it is right here.
So it's empty by default because we just recreated this file and I'm going to manually add in a new
user to this thing.
So I know exactly what email to use to sign up in order to get that error message to trigger.
So all adding an object with an email of test at test AECOM.
This is a Jason File.
So make sure that you're using double quotes inside of you're not single quotes.
And he needs to have the quotes around email and the actual value that we enter as well so then I'll
save this file.
I'll go back over to my browser.
I'm going to manually navigate to local three thousand once again and I'll enter test at test dot com.
So that's definitely an email that's in use It'll enter in some random passwords as well.
And then hit sign up and see email and use perfect.
OK.
So we're now handling that error correctly.
Now we can do the same thing for the password comparison as well.
I know this is a long video but let's just do that really quickly so we will add in a check here we
will say if the password and password confirmation are not equal to each other.
That means that the user likely added in a typo accidentally.
So we'll save password is not equal to password confirmation
then we need to return immediately from this function once again because we don't want to do anything
else inside of here and we'll send back an air of something like passwords must match its I'll say this
again I'll go back over to look at those three thousand.
I'm not going to enter an email that is definitely not in use and I'll enter in two passwords that do
not match at all already hit sign up and I see it passwords must match OK so both those checks look
good.
Now let's make sure that we can get past both those checks and get to the part where we can actually
create an account for this user so to get past both those checks I'll enter in an email that is definitely
unique and I'll enter in two identical passwords then sign up and I see account created okay.
So overall I'd say this all looks pretty good.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're going to start to understand what it really means to create an
account for a user and how we actually mark them as being signed into our applications somehow.
So quick puzzle take care of that in just a moment.